The spiritual or the virtues, or the nature. If we don't use this terminology as spiritual or the
virtues,
we can stand firmly on the ground of the way our nature is. We can stand. Stand.
So therefore, this teaching, Dharma, known as in Tibetan, 'Chuja', so it is correcting and
protecting means.
So Buddha gave this teaching from ed. 35 to ed. 82, or 81. And that whole teaching is divided into
three groups that you all know.
And those are known as the Three Turning Wheel of Dharma.
Three Turning Wheel of Dharma, Grand Master Unjiba said in his teachings that from ed. 35 to ed. 82
, he gave the first turning Wheel of Dharma,
or mainly the first turning Wheel of Dharma that he gave. From ed. 35 to ed. 82. So it's 42.
And from ed. 43 to ed. 72, he gave the teachings, second turning Wheel of Dharma, is he gave the
second turning Wheel of Dharma.
And from ed. 73 to 82, that Grand Master Unjiba said 782. So he gave the teachings on the third
turning Wheel of Dharma.
So that, entirely teaching of the Buddha character meaning, that we heard so many times, 84,000
teachings, or 12 excellent teachings,
and all that can be summarized within these three. Three. Three that he spoke that teaching.
That all teachings are, teachings is correcting us from the negative habit of evidence that spoil
and make mess to ourselves, to others,
at the same time protecting ourselves to continually going from wrong directions.
That is all entirely teachings of that. These teachings are also, as we go a little more, a little
bit more con-pacifically,
and that first teaching is not teachings, mainly teachings on the post-turning,
it's teachings mainly on the
vinaya teachings. Vinaya teaching is what? Vinaya teaching is teachings on the morality and the
karma and cause and effect,
cause and effect teachings. So Buddha be morality teachings. Buddha be teachings on the karmas,
so that we cannot feel wrong to the wrong karmas, even karmas. But we have to also give the
teachings on the cause and effects.
Whatever we see in this world, there is nothing is not coming from the cause.
And we like to have the good resolve, good true effect. We should be smart to the cause, good cause
.
Thinking of the good resolve, performing the bad, bad or the bad cause, never going to come.
That is pulling, pulling, pulling. F-O-L-I-N, right? F-O-L-I-N, even pulling ourselves.
Be smart with the cause. And we like to be good resolve, good effect.
So Buddha give extensive teachings on the cause and effect.
These teachings are known as mainly teachings on the as you say.
Vinaya teaching, but content of Vinaya teaching is mainly all that.
All morality teaching, karma, cause and effect teaching, all that known as morality teachings.
Vinaya teaching, all Vinaya teaching, and karma and cause and effect teachings are then known as
karma, also morality teachings, morality, many of these.
And then Buddha give the teachings on this one.
From the teachings from 42 to the 7th, from 43 to the 7th, 7th to the 7th teaching is the second
turning well of dharma.
That teaching is known as mainly teachings on the concentrations, meditations, meditations
teachings.
So giving more detailed teachings on the meditations and concentrations, teachings.
And third turning well of dharma, that is teaching known as the abhidharma teachings.
It is mainly teachings on the verses, verses and teachings.
So now again if you look more, I'm sure many of you have heard this. Buddha's teaching can also be
divided into two groups.
Those are known as philosophical systems, these teachings are known as definitive teachings,
interpretable teachings.
Daphanetic teachings. Daphanetic teachings. Daphanetic, I think. Daphanetic.
In that word, it says, "Nedu" and "Tandu".
"Nedu" means "Daphanetic teachings".
"Tandu" means interpretable or changeable teachings. So Buddha give the teachings.
So therefore again interpretable and definitive teachings.
This interpretable teaching is mainly the first turning wheel of dharma, is interpretable teachings
.
Second turning wheel of dharma is completely definitive teachings.
Third turning wheel of dharma is messages. Daphanetic teachings, interpretable teachings.
So that word. And now again think of what that means, interpretable and definitive.
Independable means it's not always that way. It can be changed. It can be changed.
And the law of dharma, cause and effect can change. Not always the same. Same thing.
Variety also can shift things, can change. And dharma can be changed. It's not always the same
thing.
Therefore, for example, good dharma and bad dharma. And so also good dharma can become good and
good and good.
Bad dharma become bad and bad bad too. I mean all that is known as interpretable teachings.
And daphanetic teachings such as second turning wheel of dharma is daphanetic teachings.
That means it cannot change, exactly as it is. What that is, that is for example the great
teachings on the great impedance.
Emptiness cannot be changed, cannot be shifted, moved. It is as it is, it is.
That remains the same thing. Always emptiness, the absolute truth, exactly as it is.
And then third turning wheel of dharma is messages.
Third turning wheel of dharma, Buddha gives teachings, on the particular teachings, on the clarity
of the emptiness.
Clarity of the emptiness. Emptiness is not blank emptiness.
Emptiness is full of the energy, vibration, full of energy. I should not say vibration.
The clarity is full of the energies, energies. And such as then what a nature, our own nature of
the mind.
It is not just only empty, it has all beautiful qualities.
Together with empty mind. Mind, that cannot be changed. That remains the same thing.
Nature cannot change. And then also Buddha gave in the third turning wheel of dharma, gave the
teachings on the karmas,
lot of teachings on the karmas, lot of religious teachings on the pure land, lot of teachings on
the heavens,
lot of teachings on the hell rings. All those things, those all teachings are relative truths, can
be changed, moved.
So therefore, it's called uninterpreted teachings. That is the frame of the teachings.
Now this harpsutra is what? Harpsutra is the second turning wheel of dharma.
Second, it is teachings on the definitive aspects, definitive teachings.
Teachings on the emptiness, emptiness teachings. So that's how this teaching is.
This teaching, also how Buddha gave the teachings, how Buddha, what Buddha, when Buddha gave the
teachings,
what, how he taught or gave the teachings. There is about three different ways that Buddha gave
or explained the teachings. Those are teachings are known as, as Buddha spoke directly by himself,
directly teaching that spoke directly by him, teaching that come by the blessings,
teaching that give the authority of the permissions and permissions.
So those are the three different channels Buddha gave the teachings.
And Buddha, direct his own world of teaching, teaching him directly his own world, world, that is,
this is very famous, renowned sutra, or Pandya Parama, the sutra, known as dota pa.
In Sanskrit, setzaya gata, setzaya, S-N-T-X, S-A-N-T-S-A. I think that's a rough one.
Setzaya, setzaya, not setzaya, setzaya gata, gata is G-A-T-H-A, setzaya gata.
So that is Buddha gave directly that teaching from the beginning till end, the whole things Buddha
gave the teachings.
But the other thing Buddha's teaching has also many times, dialogues and so forth.
But he says, just from the beginning till end, he gave that, all the teachings.
So that is directly his spoken teaching examples. There are many, many others too.
But the other day, of course, even dialogue teaching is Buddha's teaching too, teaching that so,
but all that.
And the second teaching is known as blessed teachings, teaching that come by blessings.
And teaching that comes from the blessings, that means,
teaching that comes from the blessings of the body, Buddha's body,
teaching that comes from the speech of the Buddha,
teaching that comes from the blessings of the Buddha's mind, or his mind.
Teaching that comes from the blessings of the Buddha's body,
there is sutra known as dota sattipa, sutra of the 10th Bali.
That sutra Buddha in the teaching says, Buddha put his hand, hand over the head of the bodhisattva,
known as dota yimpu, he put that head over that Buddha and that moment.
This bodhisattva had great, received great blessings and opened his wisdom
and gave that teaching of the dota sattipa or 10 Bhumi suttas teaching that gave that.
So that is the example of the sutra that comes by the blessings of the body.
And the sutra that comes from the blessings of the speech.
And the other sattras, very famous king, who was then become very devoted,
but at the beginning of the time he was influenced by the devadatta
and become very contagious or very, what's called, very challenging.
And the father was so devoted, the Buddha, but he lacked the opposite,
against the Buddha, and therefore again, against the Buddha.
But later, because of all those reasons, he killed his father.
Father died after a while in the teaching, he said that one time his son,
his son got, what's called, big pampas, abscess, abscess.
Abscess on his son got big abscess on his head.
His son is now really so painful and crying and all that,
and of course they give him medicine and all that.
So then the Arya Chaturb is so worried about his son, and to do this.
So his mother came there, and now of course his widow came today,
and she saw her grandson's experiences.
And so then his son, who was Arya Chaturb, was worried and sad and all that.
And then she talked to her son, the Arya Chaturb, and said,
"Don't worry, this is the kind of, your family has these sicknesses.
Your family, you had that same thing too when you were young.
So it won't be too bad, it won't go too long.
It just didn't happen to them. It happened. So you had that."
And then he said, "I had that, that these sicknesses?"
He said, "Yes, you had that sickness. You got that abscess."
So then he said, "When you, your mother said, when you got that abscess,
the King's father was so much worried, worried and sad,
and this abscess, the King's father, saw his own mouth, own mouth.
My father did that to me?" He said to mother, "Yes, that's how he worried,
and he did his own." And then he felt so sad, that I killed him.
And then he can't remember all that.
So he felt such sad and grim, and also causing that big obscuration, bad karma.
So then he became very devoted to the Buddha Chaturbani,
and then he came to the Buddha.
So Buddha gave Mejushini, told Mejushini,
"Shri, please purify the obscuration and karma of Adya Chaturbani."
By saying that, then Mejushini gave Suttara,
known as clearing with the bad karma of Adya Chaturbani, that Suttara gave.
So that is one of the leading examples of the blessed by the speech,
and the Mejushini gave the teachings, that Adya Chaturb.
"Oh, sorry, so my yoga sahron do, my ji do yoga sahron do."
That's the interview, that which is a conscious.
Then examples of the worst of mind blessings.
Blessings, this heart suttara is one of the leading examples
of the blessed by, worst of mind by the Buddha,
and through that all kind of ripple effort came one after another.
And that blessed to the Jai Reze, Avallagiri Shurah,
and that immediate effort to the Shari Buddha,
and then all this teaching came.
So these are the examples of the worst of mind blessings.
So that is how this teaching came.
And so that is really about how this teaching comes from now.
And then another way, about heart suttara.